# About This Project
This repo contains three different solutions to a common problem. The problem is the N K P problem, where there are M spaces in a graph in a grid formation, and N vehicles transporting K packages. Each package has a start position and a destination. Each vehicle starts in the garage position, picks up and drops off packages, and then returns to the garage. Each vehicle can carry P packages at a time. In this repo, I attempt to solve this problem in various ways, each with their own trade offs. Each solution is saved as a different branch.

# Implementation Decisions
For this problem, there are a number of ways we could optimize our solutions. One way would be to optimize for number of moves for each vehicle. Using this method, each vehicle’s movement would incur a cost, so they would try to move as little as possible. It may end up with one vehicle doing all the work, while the others stay still in the garage. While this method would work, I chose to optimize for lowest number of turns instead. A turn is defined as a single time step, in which all vehicles can make a move. In this way, vehicles are encouraged to work in parallel and split up the work as much as possible, which I believe results in more interesting solutions, and is likely more true to real life transportation problems.

For this project, I chose to use Matlab as my implementation language. This decision was made because Matlab is fresh in my memory after using it in CMPT 487, and it has a number of useful built in functions to make the task easier. The graph libraries were particularly useful; using Matlab allowed me to generate graphs quickly and easily, and display them in a graphical interface. This interface could be updated at any time, allowing me to watch the vehicles move around the graph as the program ran. Matlab is also optimized to easily manipulate large tables of data, allowing me to compute heuristic values very efficiently. The down side to using Matlab, that I encountered after starting the project, is running my project on other computers may be more difficult. I made use of libraries included in Matlab r2015b, which is not pre-installed on the lab computers. I have included pre-compiled versions of my solutions that should be able to be installed on any Unix computer, and instructions for how to run it are included later in this document.

# Future Considerations

One thing I would improve if I were to make another algorithm would be to add support for edge weights. It’s interesting to see A* run in an unweighted graph, but it would be more impressive to see it run with edge weights as well. In order to make this feasible, I would have to make the program run faster. One suggestion I came across in my research was to add a scale factor to the heuristic value. If the heuristic is multiplied by 1.01 before being added to the cumulative costs, it causes the algorithm to favor later states over earlier states, and cause less ties that need to be explored. This violates the admissibility of the heuristic, so it may not be an optimal value, but in practice it shouldn’t make too much of a difference. I opted to keep the solution optimal for my final solution, but it would be interesting to experiment more with short cuts to cut down on the exploring done by A*. I would also attempt to improve the heuristic function to get more accurate estimates of the costs, in order to speed up the algorithm.  
